.No error is returned on Linux/ia64.TH LIBPFM 3  "July , 2003" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pfm_dispatch_events \- setup PMC arguments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int pfm_dispatch_events(pfmlib_input_param_t *"p ", void *" mod_in ", pfmlib_output_param_t *" q, "void *" mod_out ");"
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is the central piece of the library. It is important to understand
that the library does not effectively program the PMU. On Linux/ia64, that
means that, the function  does not make any kernel \fBperfmonctl()\fR call. The PMU is never actually accessed by the 
library. Instead, the library helps applications prepare the arguments to pass to
the kernel, in particular, it sets up the values to program into the PMC registers.
The interface splits the input arguments from the output from the call, making
the distinction very explicit. The input argument are divided into two categories: 
the generic arguments in \fBp_in\fR and the optional PMU model specific arguments in 
\fBmod_in\fR. The same applies for the output arguments: \fBp_out\fR contains the generic
output arguments and \fBmod_out\fR the optional PMU model specific arguments. The 
application describes what it wants to measure in the \fBp_in\fR and if it uses some model
specific features, such as opcode matching on Itanium2 it must pass a pointer to the 
relevant model-specific input parameters. In the case of Itanium2 that would be a pointer
to a structure of type \fBpfmlib_ita2_input_param_t\fR. The generic output parameters
contains the register number and values for the PMC registers needed to make the measurement.
.sp
The typical sequence of calls first starts by initializing the library, then
each event to be monitored is searched using variations of the \fBpfm_find_event\fR
function. The results are stored into the \fBpfmlib_input_param_t\fR structure. Other
adjustments are made in this structure and optionally a model-specific structure is also
initialized. Then \fBpfm_dispatch_events\fR is called. Upon successful return from this 
function, the register numbers and values for the PMC registers are contained in the
\fBpfp_pmcs\fR table of the \fBpfmlib_output_param_t\fR structure passed as argument to
the call. The number of PMC registers in that table is contained in the 
\fBpfp_pmc_count\fR field of that structure. On Linux/ia64, the table does not have the 
format required to program the PMC via the \fBperfmonctl\fR system call, therefore the 
relevant values must first be copied into the right data structure.
.sp
The current implementation of the \fBpfm_dispatch_events\fR will completely overwrite
the \fBpfmlib_output_param\fR structure. In other words, results do not accumulate
into the \fBpfp_pmcs\fR table across multiple calls. This will be implemented in 
a future version.

.sp
The \fBpfmlib_input_param_t\fR structure is defined as follows:
.sp
.nf
typedef struct 
	int          event;
	unsigned int plm;
} pfmlib_event_t;

typedef struct {
	unsigned int    pfp_event_count;
	unsigned int    pfp_dfl_plm;
	unsigned int    pfp_flags;
	pfmlib_event_t  pfp_events[PFMLIB_MAX_PMCS];
} pfmlib_input_param_t;
.fi
.sp
The structure mostly contains one table, called \fBpfp_events\fR which describes
the events to be measured. The number of submitted events is indicated by 
\fBpfp_event_count\fR, i.e., the number of valid entries in \fBpfp_events\fR. 

Each event is described by an entry of type \fBpfmlib_event_t\fR, which contains its opaque descriptor in
\fBevent\fR obtained with \fBpfm_find_event()\fR or derivatives, and a privilege level mask in \fBplm\fR. 
The \fBplm\fR field is a bitmask where each bit indicates a set of privilege levels at which to monitor. 
The IA-64 architecture support four different levels, 0 being the most privileged level used by the 
kernel and 3 being the least privileged level used by all applications. It is possible to monitor 
at more than one level at a time. The library defines a set of constant to designate privilege levels:
.TP
.B PFM_PLM0
monitor at the privilege level 0, i.e., kernel level on Linux/ia64
.TP 
.B PFM_PLM1
monitor at privilege level 1
.TP 
.B PFM_PLM2
monitor at privilege level 2
.TP 
.B PFM_PLM3
monitor at the privilege level 3, i.e., user level on Linux/ia64
.sp
.LP
To monitor at both level and kernel levels for the first event, the application
can simply use:
.sp
.nf
event[0].plm = PFM_PLM0|PFM_PLM3;
.fi
.sp
.sp
Events with a \fBplm\fR value of 0 will use the default privilege level mask
as indicated by \fBpfp_dfl_plm\fR which must be set to any combinations of
values described above. It is illegal to have a value of 0 for this field.
.sp
The \fBpfp_flags\fR field contains a set of flags that affect the whole
set of events to be monitored. The currently defined flags are:
.TP
.B PFMLIB_PFP_SYSTEMWIDE
indicates that the monitors are to be used in a system-wide monitoring session.
This could influence the way the library sets up some register values.
.sp
.LP
Refer to the PMU specific manual for a description of the model-specific 
input parameters to be passed in \fBmod_in\fR.

The generic output parameters are contained in the fBpfmlib_output_param_t\fR
structure which is defined as:
.sp
.nf
typedef struct {
    unsigned int  reg_num;
    unsigned int  reg_reserved;
    unsigned long reg_value;
} pfmlib_pmc_t;

typedef struct {
    unsigned int pfp_pmc_count;
    pfmlib_pmc_t pfp_pmcs[PFMLIB_MAX_PMCS];
} pfmlib_output_param_t;
.fi
.sp
The number of valid entries  in the \fBpfp_pmcs\fR table is indicated by \fBpfp_pmc_count\fR.
Each entry in the table is of type \fBpfmlib_pmc_t\fR and contains the PMC register index
in \fBreg_num\fR and its value in \fBreg_value\fR. Those two fields must be copied to the
appropriate OS dependent data structure and passed to the kernel.

Refer to the PMU specific manual for a description of the model-specific 
output parameters to be returned in \fBmod_out\fR.

.SH EXAMPLE
On Linux/ia64, a typical sequence of operations to monitor 
\fBCPU_CYCLES\fR for a per-process session at the user level privilege level is as follows:
.nf
	#include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
	...
	pfmlib_input_param_t inp;
	pfmlib_output_param_t outp;
	pfarg_context_t ctx[1];
	pfarg_reg_t pd[1];
	pfarg_reg_t pc[1];
	pfarg_load_t load_arg;
	int fd;
	int ret;

	if (pfm_initialize() != PFMLIB_SUCCESS) {
		fprintf(stderr, "can't initialize library\\n");
		exit(1);
	}
	memset(&inp,0, sizeof(inp));
	memset(&outp,0, sizeof(outp));
	memset(pd, 0, sizeof(pd));
	memset(pc, 0, sizeof(pc));
	memset(&load_arg, 0, sizeof(load_arg));

	ret = pfm_find_event("cpu_cycles", &inp.pfp_events[0].event);
	if (ret != PFMLIB_SUCCESS) {
		fprintf(stderr, "cannot find cpu_cycles event\\n");
		exit(1);
	}
	inp.pfp_dfl_plm     = PFM_PLM3; 
	inp.pfp_event_count = 1;

	ret = pfm_dispatch_events(&inp, NULL, &outp, NULL);
	if (ret != PFMLIB_SUCCESS) {
		fprintf(stderr, "cannot dispatch: %s\\n", pfm_strerror(ret));
		exit(1);
	}
	/* propagate results of library to system call argument */
	pc[0].reg_num   = outp.pfp_pmcs[0].reg_num;
	pc[0].reg_value = outp.pfp_pmcs[0].reg_value;

	/* match the PMD register with the PMC controlling it (for counters) */
	pd[0].reg_num = pc[0].reg_num;
	...
	if (perfmonctl(0, PFM_CREATE_CONTEXT, ctx, 1) == -1 ) {
		...
	}
	fd = ctx.ctx_fd;

	if (perfmonctl(fd, PFM_WRITE_PMCS, pc, evt.pfp_pmc_count) == -1) {
		...
	}
	if (perfmonctl(fd, PFM_WRITE_PMDS, pd, evt.pfp_event_count) == -1) {
		...
	}

	load_arg.load_pid = getpid();
	if (perfmonctl(fd, PFM_LOAD_CONTEXT, &load_arg, 1) == -1) {
		...
	}

	pfm_self_start(fd);
	/* code to monitor */
	pfm_self_stop(fd);

	if (perfmonctl(fd, PFM_READ_PMDS, pd, evt.pfp_event_count) == -1) {
		...
	}
	printf("results: %lu\n", pd[0].reg_value);
	...
	close(fd);
	...
.fi

.SH RETURN
The function returns whether or not the call was successful.
A return value of \fBPFMLIB_SUCCESS\fR indicates sucess, 
otherwise the value is the error code.
.SH ERRORS
.B PFMLIB_ERR_NOINIT
The library has not been initialized properly.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_INVAL
Some arguments were invalid. For instance the value of *count is zero.
This can also be due to he content of the \fBpfmlib_param_t\fR structure.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_NOTFOUND
No matching event was found.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_TOOMANY
The number of events to monitor exceed the number of implemented counters.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_NOASSIGN
The events cannot be dispatched to the PMC because events have conflicting constraints.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_MAGIC
The model specific extension does not have the right magic number.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_FEATCOMB
The set of events and features cannot be combined.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_EVTMANY
An event has been supplied more than once and is causing resource (PMC) conflicts.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_IRRINVAL
Invalid code range restriction (Itanium, Itanium 2).
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_IRRALIGN
Code range has invalid alignment (Itanium, Itanium 2).
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_IRRTOOMANY
Cannot satisfy all the code ranges (Itanium, Itanium 2).
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_DRRTOOMANY
Cannot satisfy all the data ranges (Itanium, Itanium 2).
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_DRRINVAL
Invalid data range restriction (Itanium, Itanium 2).
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_EVTSET
Some events belong to incompatible sets (Itanium 2).
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_EVTINCOMP
Some events cannot be measured at the same time (Itanium 2).
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_IRRTOOBIG
Code range is too big (Itanium 2).
.SH SEE ALSO
libpfm_itanium(3), libpfm_itanium2(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
.PP
