.TH LIBPFM 3  "August, 2006" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pfm_find_event, pfm_find_full_event, pfm_find_event_bycode,
pfm_find_event_bycode_next, pfm_find_event_mask \- search for events and unit
masks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int pfm_find_event(const char *"str ", unsigned int *"desc ");"
.BI "int pfm_find_full_event(const char *"str ", pfmlib_event_t *"e ");"
.BI "int pfm_find_event_bycode(int "code ", unsigned int *"desc ");"
.BI "int pfm_find_event_bycode_next(unsigned int "desc1 ", int "code ", unsigned int *"desc ");"
.BI "int pfm_find_event_mask(unsigned int *"idx ", const char *"str ", unsigned int *"mask_idx ");"
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The PMU counters can be programmed to count the number of occurrences
of certain events. The number of events varies from one PMU model
to the other. Each event has a name and a code which is used to program
the actual PMU register. Some event may need to be further qualified
with unit masks.
.sp
The library does not directly expose the event code, nor unit mask code,
to user applications because it is not necessary. Instead applications
use names to query the library for particular information about events.
Given an event name, the library returns an opaque descriptor. 
Each descriptor is unique and has no relationship to the event code.
.sp
The set of functions described here can be used to get an event descriptor
given either the name of the event or its code. Several events may
share the same code. An event name is a string structured as: event_name[:unit_mask1[:unit_mask2]].
.sp
The \fBpfm_find_event\fR function is a general purpose search routine.
Given an event name in \fBstr\fR, it returns the descriptor for the
corresponding event.  If unit masks are provided, they are not taken
into account. This function is being deprecated in favor of
\fBpfm_find_full_event_name\fR.
.sp
The \fBpfm_find_full_event\fR function is a general purpose search routine.
Given an event name, it returns in \fBev\fR, the full event descriptor that
includes the event descriptor in \fBev->event\fR and the unit mask descriptors
in \fBev->unit_masks\fR. The number of unit masks descriptors returned is
indicated in \fBev->num_masks\fR. This function is the preferred search
function.

.sp 
The \fBpfm_find_event_bycode\fR searches for an event given
its \fBcode\fR represented as an integer. It returns in \fBdesc\fR,
the event code. Unit masks are ignored.

.sp
Because there can be several events with the same code, the library
provides the \fBpfm_find_event_bycode_next\fR to search for other
events with the same code. Given an event \fBdesc1\fR and a \fBcode\fR,
this function will look for the next event with the same code. If
such an event exists, its descriptor will be stored into \fBdesc\fR.
It is not necessary to have called \fBpfm_find_event_bycode\fR prior
to calling this function. This function is fully threadsafe as it does
not maintain any state between calls.
.sp
The \fBpfm_find_event_mask\fR function is used to find the unit mask descriptor
based on its name passed in \fBstr\fR for the event specified in \fBidx\fR. Some
events do not have unit masks, in which case this function returns an error.
.SH RETURN
All functions return whether or not the call was successful.
A return value of \fBPFMLIB_SUCCESS\fR indicates success, 
otherwise the value is the error code.
.SH ERRORS
.B PFMLIB_ERR_NOINIT
the library has not been initialized properly.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_INVAL
the event descriptor is invalid, or the pointer argument is NULL.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_NOTFOUND
no matching event or unit mask was found.
.SH AUTHOR
Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
.PP
