.TH "CDI" 3 "Wed Feb 8 2012" "Version 4.2.1.0" "PAPI-C" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
CDI \- PAPI Component Development Interface 
\fB\fIIntroduction\fP \fP
.RS 4
PAPI-C consists of a Framework and between 1 and 16 Components. The Framework is platform independent and exposes the PAPI API to end users. The Components provide access to hardware information on specific subsystems. By convention, Component 0 is always a CPU Component. This allows default behavior for legacy code, and provides a universal place to define system-wide operations and parameters, like clock rates and interrupt structures. Currently only a single CPU Component can exist at a time.
.RE
.PP
\fBNo CPU\fP
.RS 4
In certain cases it can be desirable to use a generic CPU component for testing instrumentation or for operation on systems that don't provide the proper patches for accessing cpu counters. For such a case, the configure option: 
.PP
.nf
     configure --with-no-cpu-counters = yes

.fi
.PP
 is provided to build PAPI with an 'empty' cpu component.
.RE
.PP
\fBExposed Interface\fP
.RS 4
A Component for PAPI-C typically consists of a single header file and a single (or small number of) source file(s). All of the information for a Component needed by PAPI-C is exposed through a single data structure that is declared and initialized at the bottom of the main source file. This structure, \fBpapi_vector_t\fP , is defined in \fBpapi_vector.h\fP .
.RE
.PP
\fBCompiling With an Existing Component \fP
.RS 4
Components provided with the PAPI source distribution all appear in the src/components directory. Each component exists in its own directory, named the same as the component itself. To include a component in a PAPI build, use the configure command line as shown:
.RE
.PP
.PP
.nf
        configure --with-components='component list'
.fi
.PP
.PP
Replace the 'component list' argument with either the name of a specific component directory or multiple component names separated by spaces and enclosed in quotes as shown below:
.PP
\fCconfigure\fP --with-components='acpi lustre infiniband'
.PP
In some cases components themselves require additional configuration. In these cases an error message will be produced when you run 
.PP
.nf
 make 

.fi
.PP
 . To fix this, run the configure script found in the component directory.
.PP
\fBAdding a New Component \fP
.RS 4
The mechanics of adding a new component to the PAPI 4.1 build are relatively straight-forward. Add a directory to the papi/src/components directory that is named with the base name of the component. This directory will contain the source files and build files for the new component. If configuration of the component is necessary, additional configure and make files will be needed. The /example directory can be cloned and renamed as a starting point. Other components can be used as examples. This is described in more detail in /components/README.
.RE
.PP
\fBDeveloping a New Component \fP
.RS 4
A PAPI-C component generally consists of a header file and one or a small number of source files. The source file must contain a \fBpapi_vector_t\fP structure that exposes the internal data and entry points of the component to the PAPI-C Framework. This structure must have a unique name that is exposed externally and contains the name of the directory containing the component source code.
.RE
.PP
Three types of information are exposed in the \fBpapi_vector_t\fP structure: Configuration parameters are contained in the \fBPAPI_component_info_t\fP structure; Sizes of opaque data structures necessary for memory management are in the \fBcmp_struct_sizes_t\fP structure; An array of function entry points which, if implemented, provide access to the functionality of the component.
.PP
If a function is not implemented in a given component its value in the structure can be left unset. In this case it will be initialized to NULL, and result (generally) in benign, although unproductive, behavior.
.PP
During the development of a component, functions can be implemented and tested in blocks. Further information about an appropriate order for developing these functions can be found in the Component Development Cookbook .
.PP
\fBPAPI-C Open Research Issues:\fP
.RS 4

.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
Support for non-standard data types: Currently PAPI supports returned data values expressed as unsigned 64-bit integers. This is appropriate for counting events, but may not be as appropriate for expressing other values. Examples of some other possible data types are shown below. Data type might be expressed as a flag in the event definition. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
Signed Integer 
.PD 0

.IP "  \(bu" 4
Float: 64-bit IEEE double precision 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Fixed Point: 32-bit integer and 32-bit fraction 
.IP "  \(bu" 4
Ratios: 32 bit numerator and 32 bit denominator 
.PP

.IP "\(bu" 2
Synchronization: Components might report values with widely different time scales and remote measurements may be significantly skewed in time from local measurements. It would be desirable to have a mechanism to synchronize these values in time. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
Dynamic Component Discovery: Components currently must be included statically in the PAPI library build. This minimizes startup disruption and time lag, particularly for large parallel systems. In some instances it would also be desirable to support a run-time discovery process for components, possibly by searching a specific location for dynamic libraries. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
Component Repository: A small collection of components are currently maintained and supported inside the PAPI source distribution. It would be desirable to create a public component repository where 3rd parties could submit components for the use and benefit of the larger community. 
.IP "\(bu" 2
Multiple CPU Components: With the rise in popularity of heterogeneous computing systems, it may become desirable to have more than one CPU component. Issues must then be resolved relating to which cpu time-base is used, how are interrupts handled, etc. 
.PP
.RE
.PP

