.\" $Id$
.TH PAPI_set_granularity 3 "April, 2007" "PAPI Programmer's Reference" "PAPI"

.SH NAME
 PAPI_set_granularity \- set the default counting granularity for eventsets bound to the cpu component
 PAPI_set_cmp_granularity \- set the default counting granularity for eventsets bound to the specified component

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B C Interface
.nf
.B #include <papi.h>
.BI "int\ PAPI_set_granularity(int " granularity ");"
.BI "int\ PAPI_set_cmp_granularity(int " granularity", int " cidx " );
.fi
.B Fortran Interface
.nf
.B #include "fpapi.h"
.BI PAPIF_set_granularity(C_INT\  granularity,\  C_INT\  check )
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B "PAPI_set_granularity" 
sets the default counting granularity for all new event sets created by
.BR "PAPI_create_eventset" (3).
This call implicitly sets the granularity for the cpu component
(component 0) and is included to preserve backward compatibility.
.LP
.B "PAPI_set_cmp_granularity" 
sets the default counting granularity for all new event sets,
 and requires an explicit component argument. 
 Event sets that are already in existence are not affected. 
To change the granularity of an existing event set, please see the 
.BR "PAPI_set_opt" (3)
man page. The reader should note that the granularity of an event set
affects only the mode in which the counter continues to run.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.I cidx
-- An integer identifier for a component. By convention, component 0 is always the cpu component.

.I "granularity"
-- one of the following constants as defined in the papi.h header file:

.TS
allbox tab($);
lB l.
PAPI_GRN_THR$Count each individual thread 
PAPI_GRN_PROC$Count each individual process 
PAPI_GRN_PROCG$Count each individual process group 
PAPI_GRN_SYS$Count the current CPU
PAPI_GRN_SYS_CPU$Count all CPU's individually 
PAPI_GRN_MIN$The finest available granularity
PAPI_GRN_MAX$The coarsest available granularity
.TE

.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, this function returns
.B "PAPI_OK."
 On error, a non-zero error code is returned.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B "PAPI_EINVAL"
One or more of the arguments is invalid.
.TP
.B "PAPI_ENOEVST"
The event set specified does not exist.
.TP
.B "PAPI_ENOCMP"
The argument
.I cidx
is not a valid component.
.TP
.B "PAPI_EISRUN"
The event set is currently counting events.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.if t .ft CW
int retval;

/* Initialize the library */

retval = PAPI_library_init(PAPI_VER_CURRENT);

if (retval > 0 && retval != PAPI_VER_CURRENT) {
  fprintf(stderr,"PAPI library version mismatch!\n");
  exit(1); }

if (retval < 0) 
  handle_error(retval);

/* Set the default granularity for the cpu component */

if ((retval = PAPI_set_cmp_granularity(PAPI_GRN_PROC,0)) != PAPI_OK)
  handle_error(retval);

if ((retval = PAPI_create_eventset(&EventSet)) != PAPI_OK)
  handle_error(retval);
.if t .ft P
.fi

.SH BUGS
This function has no known bugs.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PAPI_set_domain "(3), " PAPI_set_opt "(3), " PAPI_get_opt "(3) "
