.\" @(#)PAPI_add_pevent    0.10 99/07/28 CHD; from S5
.TH PAPI_add_pevent 0 "28 July 1999"
.SH NAME
PAPI_add_pevent \- create an EventSet for a native event
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
int PAPI_add_pevent (int *EventSet, int code, void *inout)
.LP
int *EventSet -- a reference to an EventSetInfo structure
.LP
int code -- a substrate specific identifier
.LP
void *inout -- a substrate specific opaque data structure
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B PAPI_add_pevent(\|)
allocates a new EventSet for a native programmable Event. Such
EventSets can only consist of one event, namely that which is 
specified in this call.  Its semantics are very similar to that
of ioctl() system call.  inout points to an opaque data structure
that is specific to the value in code.  Higher level macros may be 
provided in the header file.  Please check the documentation for
each substrate.  This function has a C binding only.
.LP
The return value is an integer that indicates whether the call
succeeded (PAPI_OK) or failed (not PAPI_OK).  
.LP
.SH CROSS-REFERENCE WITH OTHER PerfAPI FUNCTIONS
.nf
.B  \t
.B  PAPI_add_pevent may be called by:
.B  \t
.B  \tthe user application program
.fi
.nf
.B  \t
.B  PAPI_add_pevent contains calls to:
.B  \t
.B  \tPAPI_init
.B  \tlookup_EventSet 
.B  \thandle_error
.B  \tallocate_EventSet
.B  \tadd_EventSet
.B  \t_papi_hwd_add_prog_event ( a substrate function )
.fi
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf 
.B The PerfAPI Draft: 
.B \thttp://icl.cs.utk.edu/projects/papi/api/ 
.SH BUGS
.LP
This function has no known bugs.
