.\" @(#)PAPI_profil    0.10 00/05/18 CHD; from S5
.TH PAPI_profil 0 "18 May 2000"
.SH NAME
PAPI_profil \- set values in the EventSetProfileInfo_t strct.
.LP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
int PAPI_profil (void *buf, int bufsiz, caddr_t offset, unsigned int scale, int EventSet, int EventCode, int threshold, int flags) 
.LP
void *buf -- buf val of EventSetProfileInfo_t strct.
.LP
int bufsiz -- bufsiz val of EventSetProfileInfo_t strct.
.LP
caddr_t offset -- offset val of EventSetProfileInfo_t strct.
.LP
unsigned int scale -- scale val EventSetProfileInfo_t strct.
.LP
int EventSet -- a reference to an EventSetInfo structure
.LP
int EventCode -- the numeric value of the Event
.LP
int threshold -- threshold val EventSetProfileInfo_t strct.
.LP
int flags -- flags val of EventSetProfileInfo_t strct.
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B PAPI_profil(\|)
This function sets the values in the EventSetProfileInfo_t structure,
if profiling is to be enabled for this EventSet.  The EventSet must be
in the stopped state for this call to succeed.
.LP
The return value is an integer that indicates whether the call
succeeded (PAPI_OK) or failed (not PAPI_OK).  
.LP
.SH CROSS-REFERENCE WITH OTHER PerfAPI FUNCTIONS
.nf
.B  \t
.B  PAPI_profil may be called by:
.B  \t
.B  \tthe user application program
.fi
.nf
.B  \t
.B  PAPI_profil contains calls to:
.B  \t
.B  \tlookup_EventSet 
.B  \thandle_error
.B  \tlookup_EventCodeIndex
.B  \t_papi_hwd_set_profile ( a substrate function )
.B  \tPAPI_overflow
.fi
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf 
.B The PerfAPI Draft: 
.B \thttp://icl.cs.utk.edu/projects/papi/api/ 
.fi
.SH BUGS
.LP
This function has no known bugs.
