.\" @(#)PAPI_add_events    0.10 99/07/28 CHD; from S5
.TH PAPI_add_events 0 "28 July 1999"
.SH NAME
PAPI_add_events \- set up a new or modify an existing EventSet 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
int PAPI_add_events (int *EventSet, int *Events, int number)
.LP
int *EventSet -- a reference to an EventSetInfo structure
.LP
int *Events -- an array of codes for events, such as PAPI_INT_INS
.LP
int number -- how many items in Events array
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B PAPI_add_events (\|)
This function sets up a new EventSet or modifies an existing one.
To create a new EventSet, EventSet
must be set to PAPI_NULL. The Events contained in *Events will
be loaded into the EventSet. Separate EventSets
containing events that require use of the same hardware
may exist, but may not be started if a conflicting EventSet is
running. If one or more of the items in Events cannot be counted
on this platform, this funciton returns the error code PAPI_ENOEVNT.
In addition, the invalid entries in the Events array are set to
PAPI_NULL, such that the user can successfully reissue the call.
The addition of a
conflicting event to an event set will return an error unless
PAPI_SET_MPXRES has been set. Note:
EventSet 0 may not be used; it has been reserved for
internal use.
.LP
The return value is an integer that indicates whether the call
succeeded (a positive integer corresponding to the index in the
EventCodeArray where this event is stored) or failed (an error code).  
.LP
.SH CROSS-REFERENCE WITH OTHER PerfAPI FUNCTIONS
.nf
.B  \t
.B  PAPI_add_events may be called by:
.B  \t
.B  \tthe user application program
.fi
.nf
.B  \t
.B  PAPI_add_events contains calls to:
.B  \t
.B  \tlookup_EventSet 
.B  \thandle_error
.B  \tPAPI_add_event
.fi
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf 
.B The PerfAPI Draft: 
.B \thttp://icl.cs.utk.edu/projects/papi/api/ 
.SH BUGS
.LP
This function has no known bugs.
