.\" $Id$
.TH PAPI_get_event_info 3 "November, 2003" "PAPI Programmer's Reference" PAPI

.SH NAME
PAPI_get_event_info \- get the event's name and description info

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B C Interface
.nf
.B #include <papi.h>
.BI "int PAPI_get_event_info(int EventCode, PAPI_event_info_t *info);"
.fi
.B Fortran Interface
.nf
.B #include "fpapi.h"
.BI PAPIF_get_event_info(C_INT\  EventCode,\  C_STRING\  symbol,
.BI \tC_STRING\ long_descr,\ C_STRING\  short_descr,\  C_INT\  count,
.BI \tC_STRING\ event_note,\ C_INT\  flags, ,\ C_INT\  check)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
In C, this function fills the event information into a structure.
In Fortran, some fields of the structure are returned explicitly.

.SH ARGUMENTS
The following arguments are implicit in the structure returned by the C function,
or explicitly returned by Fortran.
.LP
.I EventCode
--  event code(preset or native)
.LP
.I info
--  structure with the event information
.LP
.I symbol
--  whether the preset is part of the API
.LP
.I long_descr
--  detail description about the event
.LP
.I short_descr
--  short description about the event
.LP
.I event_note
--  notes about the event

.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, the C function returns PAPI_OK, 
and the Fortran function returns 
.B PAPI_OK.
 On error, a non-zero error code is returned by the function.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B "PAPI_EINVAL"
One or more of the arguments is invalid.
.TP
.B "PAPI_ENOTPRESET"
The hardware event specified is not a valid PAPI preset.
.TP
.B "PAPI_ENOEVNT"
The PAPI preset is not available on the underlying hardware.



.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
.nf
.if t .ft CW

int EventCode;
PAPI_event_info_t info;

if (PAPI_library_init(PAPI_VER_CURRENT) != PAPI_VER_CURRENT)
  exit(1);

if (PAPI_event_name_to_code("PAPI_TOT_INS",&EventCode) != PAPI_OK)
  handle_error(1);
	
if (PAPI_get_event_info(EventCode, &info) == PAPI_OK)
  handle_error(1);

.if t .ft P
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
The PAPI Team. See them at the PAPI Web Site: 
http://icl.cs.utk.edu/projects/papi

.SH BUGS
This function has no known bugs.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PAPI_library_init "(3), "
.BR PAPI_get_hardware_info "(3), "
.BR PAPI_get_opt "(3)" 
