.\" @(#)$Id$
.TH PAPI_sprofil 3 "September, 2004" "PAPI Programmer's Reference" "PAPI"

.SH NAME
PAPI_sprofil \- generate PC histogram data from multiple code regions where hardware counter overflow occurs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B C Interface
.nf
.B #include <papi.h>
.BI int\ PAPI_sprofil(PAPI_sprofil_t\ *\  prof,\  int\  profcnt,\  int\  EventSet,\
.BI \ \ \ int\  EventCode,\  int\  threshold,\  int\  flags\  );
.fi
.LP
.B Fortran Interface
.nf
The profiling routines have no Fortran interface.
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B PAPI_sprofil()
is a structure driven profiler that profiles one or more disjoint regions of code 
in a single call. It accepts a pointer to
a preinitialized array of sprofil structures, and initiates profiling based on 
the values contained in the array. Each structure in the array defines the 
profiling parameters that are normally passed to
.B PAPI_profil().
For more information on profiling, see:
.BR PAPI_pofil "(3)"

.SH STRUCTURE FIELDS
.I *pr_base
-- pointer to the base address of the buffer.
.LP
.I pr_size
-- the size of the histogram buffer in pr_base.
.LP
.I pr_off
-- the start address of	the region to be profiled.
.LP
.I pr_scale
-- the scaling factor applied to the buffer.
.LP
These fields are described in greater detail in the documentation for
.BR PAPI_pofil "(3)"

.SH ARGUMENTS
.I *prof
-- pointer to an array of PAPI_sprofil_t structures.
.LP
.I profcnt
-- number of structures in the prof array for hardware profiling.
.LP
.I EventSet 
-- The PAPI EventSet to profile. This EventSet is marked as profiling-ready, but profiling
doesn't actually start until a 
.B PAPI_start()
call is issued.
.LP
.I EventCode
-- Code of the Event in the EventSet to profile. This event must already be a member of the EventSet.
.LP
.I threshold 
-- minimum number of events that must occur before the PC is sampled. If hardware overflow
is supported for your substrate, this threshold will trigger an interrupt when reached. 
Otherwise, the counters will be sampled periodically and the PC will be recorded for the
first sample that exceeds the threshold. If the value of threshold is 0, profiling will be
disabled for this event.

.LP
.I flags 
-- bit pattern to control profiling behavior. Defined values are given in a table 
in the documentation for
.BR PAPI_pofil "(3)"

.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, this function returns
.B "PAPI_OK."
 On error, a non-zero error code is returned.

.SH ERRORS
Error returns for
.B PAPI_sprofil()
are identical to those for
.BR PAPI_profil "(3)"
Please refer to that page for further details.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.if t .ft CW
int retval;
int EventSet = PAPI_NULL;
unsigned long start, end, length;
PAPI_exe_info_t *prginfo;
unsigned short *profbuf1, *profbuf2, profbucket;
PAPI_sprofil_t sprof[3];

retval = PAPI_library_init(PAPI_VER_CURRENT);

if (retval != PAPI_VER_CURRENT & retval > 0) {
  fprintf(stderr,"PAPI library version mismatch!\n");
  exit(1); }

if (retval < 0) 
  handle_error(retval);

if ((prginfo = PAPI_get_executable_info()) == NULL)
  handle_error(1);

start = (unsigned long)prginfo->text_start;
end = (unsigned long)prginfo->text_end;
length = (end - start);

/* Allocate 2 buffers of equal length */
profbuf1 = (unsigned short *)malloc(length);
profbuf2 = (unsigned short *)malloc(length);
if ((profbuf1 == NULL) || (profbuf2 == NULL))
  handle_error(1);
memset(profbuf1,0x00,length);
memset(profbuf2,0x00,length);

/* Create an empty EventSet */
if ((retval = PAPI_create_eventset(&EventSet)) != PAPI_OK)
  handle_error(retval);

/* Add Total FP Instructions Executed to our EventSet */
if ((retval = PAPI_add_event(EventSet, PAPI_FP_INS)) != PAPI_OK)
  handle_error(retval);

/* First buffer */
sprof[0].pr_base = profbuf1;
sprof[0].pr_size = length;
sprof[0].pr_off = (caddr_t) DO_FLOPS;
sprof[0].pr_scale = 0x10000;

/* Second buffer */
sprof[1].pr_base = profbuf2;
sprof[1].pr_size = length;
sprof[1].pr_off = (caddr_t) DO_READS;
sprof[1].pr_scale = 0x10000;

/* Overflow bucket */
sprof[2].pr_base = profbucket;
sprof[2].pr_size = 1;
sprof[2].pr_off = 0;
sprof[2].pr_scale = 0x0002;

if ((retval = PAPI_sprofil(sprof, EventSet, PAPI_FP_INS, 1000000,
                 PAPI_PROFIL_POSIX | PAPI_PROFIL_BUCKET_16)) != PAPI_OK)
  handle_error(retval);

/* Start counting */
if ((retval = PAPI_start(EventSet)) != PAPI_OK)
  handle_error(1);
.if t .ft P
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
The PAPI Team. See them at the PAPI Web Site: 
http://icl.cs.utk.edu/projects/papi

.SH BUGS
These functions have no known bugs.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PAPI_profil "(3), "
.BR PAPI_preset "(3), " PAPI_get_executable_info "(3), "
.BR PAPI_set_opt "(3), " PAPI_start "(3), " PAPI_remove_event "(3), " 
.BR PAPI_remove_events "(3), " PAPI_query "(3), "
.BR PAPI_cleanup_eventset "(3), " PAPI_destroy_eventset "(3), " 
.BR PAPI_overflow "(3) "
