.\" @(#)PAPI_set_opt    0.10 99/07/28 CHD; from S5
.TH PAPI_set_opt 0 "28 July 1999"
.SH NAME
PAPI_set_opt \- set option for multiplexing, debug, or overflow 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
int PAPI_set_opt (int option, PAPI_option_t *ptr)
.LP
int option -- integer code for multiplexing or debug or overflow
.LP
PAPI_option_t *ptr -- ptr to arguments for different options
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B PAPI_set_opt(\|)
.LP
This funtion sets specific options of the PerfAPI Library, its 
substrate, or specific EventSets.  The PAPI_option_t structure
represents a union of all the structures that can be 
arguments to the different options.  In addition, there may 
exist machine specific options so please check the header
file for documentation.  This function has a C binding only.
.LP
The reader is urged to carefully read the PerfAPI Draft for a
complete discussion of PAPI_set_opt.  The file papi.h contains
definitions for the structures unioned in the PAPI_option_t structure.  
.LP
The return value is an integer that indicates whether the call
succeeded (PAPI_OK) or failed (not PAPI_OK).  
.LP
.SH DEFINITION OF CONSTANTS
.nf 
.B PAPI_SET_DOMAIN \tDomain for a single EventSet
.B PAPI_SET_DEFDOM \tDomain for all new EventsSets
.B PAPI_SET_GRANU  \tGranularity for an EventSet
.B PAPI_SET_DEFGRN \tGranularity for all new EventSets
.B PAPI_SET_INHERIT\tSet "inherit" for child threads 
.B PAPI_SET_MPXRES \tEnable, set resolution of mpx 
.B PAPI_SET_DEBUG  \tTurn on debugging for PerfAPI
.B PAPI_SET_OVERFLO\tTurn on overflow reporting 
.fi
.LP 
.SH CROSS-REFERENCE WITH OTHER PerfAPI FUNCTIONS
.nf
.B  \t
.B  PAPI_set_opt may be called by:
.B  \t
.B  \tthe user application program
.B  \tPAPI_set_granularity 
.B  \tPAPI_set_domain
.fi
.nf
.B  \t
.B  PAPI_set_opt contains calls to:
.B  \t
.B  \tlookup_EventSet
.B  \thandle_error
.B  \t_papi_hwd_cntl ( a substrate function )
.fi
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf 
.B The PerfAPI Draft: 
.B \thttp://icl.cs.utk.edu/projects/papi/api/ 
.fi
.SH BUGS
.LP
This function has no known bugs.
