.TH LIBPFM 4  "April, 2009" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libpfm_amd64 - support for AMD64 processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.B PMU name: amd64
.B PMU desc: AMD64
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The library supports AMD K7, K8, Fam10h, Fam11h AMD64 processors in both 32 and 64-bit modes.

The PMU name is "amd64" for all models. The PMU description is adjusted dynamically to show
the model name, e.g. Barcelona, and the revision, e.g., RevC.

.SH MODIFIERS
The following modifiers are supported on AMD64 processors (subject to revision restriction shown):
.TP
.B u
Measure at user level which includes privilege levels 1, 2, 3. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B k
Measure at kernel level which includes privilege level 0. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B h
Measure at while executing in host mode (when using virtualization). This modifier is available
starting with Fam10h. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B g
Measure at while executing in guest mode (when using virtualization). This modifier is available
starting with Fam10h. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B i
Invert the meaning of the event. The counter will now count cycles in which the event is \fBnot\fR
occurring. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B e
Enable edge detection, i.e., count only when there is a state transition. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B c
Set the counter mask value. The mask acts as a threshold. The counter will count the number of cycles
in which the number of occurrences of the event is greater or equal to the threshold. This is an integer
modifier with values in the range [0:255].
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
It is possible to force activation of the AMD64 support using the \fBLIBPFM_FORCE_PMU\fR variable.
The PMU name, amd64, must be passed. But the library supports additional options which can be
expressed as follows:
.ce
.B LIBPFM_FORCE_PMU=amd64,family,model,stepping

Where the components are defined as follows:
.TP
.B family
The family number: 6, 15, 16.
.TP
.B model
The model number with the family.
.TP
.B stepping
The stepping for the model.

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
Robert Richter <robert.richter@amd.com>
.if
.PP
