.\" $Id$
.TH PAPI_XML_EVENT_INFO 1 "April, 2008"
.SH NAME
papi_xml_event_info \- provides event information for PAPI preset and native events in xml format.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBpapi_xml_event_info\fP [\fIoptions\fP]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpapi_xml_event_info\fP is a PAPI utility program that reports information about the preset and 
native events available on the current platform. A preset event is a PAPI defined platform independent 
event composed of one or more native events. A native event is an event specific to a given hardware 
platform. Similar information to that presented with \fBpapi_avail\fP or \fBpapi_native_avail\fP is 
presented, but in an xml format that is suitable for parsing by higher level performance tools.
 For each event, an index, a name, a description, and a PAPI event code are provided. In addition,
 extra information, like available unit masks, may also be provided for native events.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fI-h\fP
Display help information about this utility.

.TP
\fI-p\fP
Output information on only preset events.

.TP
\fI-n\fP
Output information on only native events.

.TP
\fI-c <index>\fP
Output event information for component <index>. This option applies specifically to the 
PAPI-C version of this utility.


.SH BUGS 
There are no known bugs in this utility. 
.LP
If you find a bug, it should be reported to the PAPI Mailing List at <ptools-perfapi@ptools.org>. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PAPI "(3), " papi_avail "(1), " papi_clockres "(1), " papi_command_line "(1), " papi_cost "(1), "
.BR papi_event_chooser "(1), " papi_mem_info "(1), " papi_native_avail "(1)"
