.\" $Id$
.TH PAPI_NATIVE_AVAIL 1 "April, 2008"
.SH NAME
papi_native_avail \- provides detailed information for PAPI native events.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBpapi_native_avail\fP [\fIoptions\fP]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpapi_native_avail\fP is a PAPI utility program that reports information about the native events available on the current platform.
A native event is an event specific to a given hardware platform. Some platforms support special features for certain events.
Those events can be determined by applying filters to the list. On many platforms, native events may have optional settings, 
or unit masks. In such cases, the native event and each unit mask is presented. For each native event, a name, a description, 
and the PAPI event code are provided.


.SH OPTIONS

\fBGeneral command options:\fP

.TP
\fI-d, --detail\fP
Display detailed information about native events.

.TP
\fI-e <event>\fP
Display detailed event information for the named native event.

.TP
\fI-h, --help\fP
Display help information about this utility.


.TP
\fBEvent filtering and display options:
.TP
(These options may not be present, depending on the architecture. Use \fI--help\fB to confirm availability.)\fP


.TP
\fI--darr\fP
Display events supporting Data Address Range Restriction.

.TP
\fI--dear\fP
Display Data Event Address Register events only.

.TP
\fI--iarr\fP
Display events supporting Instruction Address Range Restriction.

.TP
\fI--iear\fP
Display Instruction Event Address Register events only.

.TP
\fI--opcm\fP
Display events supporting OpCode Matching.

.TP
\fI--nomasks\fP
Suppress display of Unit Mask information.

.TP
\fI--nogroups\fP
Suppress display of Event grouping information.


.SH BUGS 
There are no known bugs in this utility. 
.LP
If you find a bug, it should be reported to the PAPI Mailing List at <ptools-perfapi@ptools.org>. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PAPI "(3), " papi_avail "(1), " papi_clockres "(1), " papi_command_line "(1), " papi_cost "(1), "
.BR papi_decode "(1), " papi_event_chooser "(1), " papi_mem_info "(1)"
