.\" $Id$
.TH PAPI_AVAIL 1 "April, 2008"
.SH NAME
papi_avail \- provides availability and detail information for PAPI preset events.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBpapi_avail\fP [\fIoptions\fP]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpapi_avail\fP is a PAPI utility program that reports information about the current PAPI installation and supported preset events.
Using the -e option, it will also display detailed information about specific preset or native events.


.SH OPTIONS

\fBGeneral command options:\fP
.TP
\fI-a, --avail\fP
Display only the available (implemented) PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI-d, --detail\fP
Display PAPI preset event information in a more detailed format.

.TP
\fI-h, --help\fP
Display help information about this utility.

.TP
\fI-e <event>\fP 
Display detailed event information for the named event. This event can be either a preset or a native event.


.TP
\fBEvent filtering options:
.TP
(These PAPI preset event filters can be combined in a logical OR)\fP

.TP
\fI--br\fP 
Display branch related PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--cache\fP 
Display cache related PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--cnd\fP 
Display conditional PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--fp\fP 
Display Floating Point related PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--ins\fP 
Display instruction related PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--idl\fP 
Display Stalled or Idle PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--l1\fP 
Display level 1 cache related PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--l2\fP 
Display level 2 cache related PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--l3\fP 
Display level 3 cache related PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--mem\fP 
Display memory related PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--msc\fP 
Display miscellaneous PAPI preset events.

.TP
\fI--tlb\fP 
Display Translation Lookaside Buffer PAPI preset events.

.SH BUGS 
There are no known bugs in this utility. 
.LP
If you find a bug, it should be reported to the PAPI Mailing List at <ptools-perfapi@ptools.org>. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PAPI "(3), " papi_clockres "(1), " papi_command_line "(1), " papi_cost "(1), " papi_decode "(1), "
.BR papi_event_chooser "(1), " papi_mem_info "(1), " papi_native_avail "(1)"



