.TH LIBPFM 3  "February, 2014" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libpfm_perf_event_raw - support for perf_events raw events syntax
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.B PMU name: perf_raw
.B PMU desc: Raw perf_events event syntax
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The library supports a pseudo PMU model to allow raw encodings of PMU events
for the Linux perf_events kernel interface.

With this PMU, it is possible to provide the raw hexadecimal encoding of any
hardware event for any PMU models. The raw encoding is passed as is to the
kernel. All events are encoded as \fBPERF_TYPE_RAW\fR. As such, perf_events
generic events, such as cycles, instructions, cannot be encoded by this
PMU.

The syntax is very simple: rX. X is the hexadecimal 64-bit value for the event.
It may include event filters on some PMU models. The hexadecimal number is passed
without the 0x prefix, e.g., r01c4.

The library's standard perf_events attributes are supported oby this PMU model.
They are separated with colons as is customary with the library.

.SH MODIFIERS
The following modifiers are supported by this PMU model:
.TP
.B u
Measure at user level which includes privilege levels 1, 2, 3. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM3\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B k
Measure at kernel level which includes privilege level 0. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM0\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B h
Measure at the hypervisor level. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLMH\fR.
This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B mg 
Measure guest execution only. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B mh
Measure host execution only. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B period
Specify the the sampling period value. Value can be expressed in decimal or hexadecimal.
Value is 64-bit wide. This option is mutually exclusive with
\fBfreq\fR. The period is expressed in the unit of the event. There is no default value.
.TP
.B freq
Specify the the sampling frequency value. Value can be expressed in decimal or hexadecimal.
Value is 64-bit wide. This options is mutually exclusive with
\fBperiod\fR. The value is expressed in Hertz. For instance, freq=100, means that the
event should be sampled 100 times per second on average. There is no default value.
.TP
.B excl
The associated event is the only event measured on the PMU. This applies only to hardware
events. This atrtribute requires admin privileges. Default is off.
.TP
.B precise
Enables precise sampling mode. This option is only valid on sampling events. This is an
integer value. It can have the following values: 1 enable precise sampling, 2 enable precise
sampling and eliminate skid. Not all events necessarily support precise mode, this is dependent
on the underlying PMU. Eliminating skid is a best effort feature. It may not work for all
samples.


.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
.if
.PP
