.TH LIBPFM 4  "December, 2009" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pfm_get_event_info \- get event information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int pfm_get_event_info(int " idx ", pfm_event_info_t *" info ");"
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns in \fBinfo\fR information about a specific event
designated by its opaque unique identifier in \fBidx\fR.

The \fBpfm_event_info_t\fR structure is defined as follows:
.nf
typedef struct {
        const char              *name;
        const char              *desc;
        const char              *equiv;
        uint64_t                code;
        pfm_pmu_t               pmu;
        int                     idx;
        int                     nattrs;
        int                     size;
        uint64_t                reserved[2];
} pfm_event_info_t;
.fi

The fields of this structure are defined as follows:
.TP
.B name
This is the name of the event. This is a read-only string.
.TP
.B desc
This is the description of the event. This is a read-only string. It may contain
multiple sentences.
.TP
.B equiv
Certain events may be just variations of actual events. They may be provided as
handy shortcuts to avoid supplying a long list of attributes. For those events,
this field is not NULL and contains the complete equivalent event string.
.TP
.B code
This is the raw event code. It should not be confused with the encoding
of the event. This field represents only the event selection code, it does
not include any unit mask or attribute settings.
.TP
.B pmu
This is the identification of the PMU model this event belongs to. It is
of type \fBpfm_pmu_t\fR. Using this value and the \fBpfm_get_pmu_info\fR
function, it is possible to get PMU information.
.TP
.B idx
This is the event unique opaque identifier. It is identical to the idx
passed to the call and is provided for completeness.
.TP
.B nattrs
This is the number of attributes supported by this event. Attributes
may be unit masks or modifiers. If the event has not attribute, then
the value of this field is simply 0.
.TP
.B size
This field must be set to zero for now. It will be used in case the
\fBpfm_event_info\fR structure is expanded.
.PP
The \fBreserved\fR field must be set to zero.


.SH RETURN

If successful, the function returns \fBPFM_SUCCESS\fR and event information
in \fBinfo\fR, otherwise it returns an error code.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_NOINIT
Library has not been initialized properly.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_INVAL
The \fBidx\fR argument is invalid or \fBinfo\fR is \fBNULL\fR or \fBsize\fR
is not zero.
.SH AUTHOR
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
.PP
